**Reflection**

As the only stakeholder involved in this exercise, the whole process of creating a product backlog, prioritizing the user stories, and doing the sprint planning created a difficult internal battle. Agile methodologies highlight a collaborative and iterative feedback loop. Working by myself forced me to face my own biases, resistances, and unknowns which posed a difficult task. 
There is an illusion of being objective while trying to prioritize the user stories using the MoSCoW framework seemed simple in the beginning. Except being the only stakeholder, I really struggled to separate my assumptions about what I thought the user needs from what the user actually needs. As well as the internal conflict between how fast I can deliver a functional MVP and ensuring the system is sustainable became a repeated battle. Not having other stakeholders to challenge or validate my views, meant I changed between overconfidence and my self-doubt.
Estimating the effort alone increased the risk of cognitive biases. With the absence of a team to double check my estimates there are biases. I’m only able to fixate on my initial guesses, therefore, pertaining to planning fallacy. The isolation of my being the only one estimating made it easy to ignore the hidden tasks, like the documentation and or the error logging, which are critical things to consider too.
Because agile thrives on feedback loops and shared ownership, I found it difficult to embrace flexibility. Halfway through sprint planning, I realized that my rigid comfortability to initial priorities contradicted agile’s adaptive ethos. The lack of daily standups or retrospectives means I failed to see the burnout risks or adjust the sprint scope when tasks overran.
The lessons I think I learned is to embrace me being my biggest critic. To counter the aloneness, I can role-play me being a sceptic of my work questioning everything to try force objectivity. I can also look to historical data and use any past projects to figure out better estimates. Limiting my task hours also forces me to identify where I need to prioritize and therefore also avoiding perfectionism.
This assignment highlighted the biggest agile challenge for a solo stakeholder is resisting the urge to blend one’s own preferences with user needs. Acknowledging my internal resistance, I can better imitate the checks and balances of a team. The main takeaway would be that agile’s principles will definitely be valuable in one team projects, but only if I actively try to counterbalance my biases with my discipline and structured self-reflection.
